# Adventure Geometry 

## Introduction

Adventure!!  Professional geometricians might say their subject is already an adventure.  Perhaps.  But that is not what I mean here.  I mean adventure like quests and campaigns and forests and swamps.  I mean actually going out and *doing* things in the physical world.  Too much of the time we separate geometry from art from technology from belief from our day to day actions, when it is much more natural for these to all be part of the flow of the adventure of life.  

And why geometry?  Geometry has many definitions but to me it's a particularly efficient way for the human mind to connect with the physical world.  We refer to things like "shapes" and "positions", "points", "lines", "circles" etc. as if these are real things in some very abstract sense outside of our own minds.  Perhaps they are perhaps they're not, it's not my place here to say.  But what I will say is that that's not the most important thing for most of us.  What we care about are the things we *actually* care about: life, adventure, caring for our fellow creatures, knowledge, belief, beauty, art, love. And the way shapes fit into space is directly relevant to all these things in very practical ways.  My approach here is not to say what a triangle or circle "really" is in some deep philosophical sense.  Rather it is to say how you can make your actual life better with a triangle or a circle in the most efficient possible way.  

I believe the methods of geometry are the single most unifying set of ideas and methods not only in the human world but in the natural world around us. Sure, you can use numbers to add up the number of grains of sand in a sand pile, but if it's shaped like a cone that is much more useful information.  I am convinced that there is a much more universal and useful truth in the idea that a bubble floating in the air is a sphere than in the set of equations and numbers that describe the bubble using our main mathematical and scientific methods.  Not that I would ever say those methods are "wrong" exactly, but the fact that they're so much harder to learn makes them a less fundamental truth *relative to to the human mind*.  And that matters.  We are not computers(which are dumb anyway) and we are not gods.  We have minds that do some things very well and other things less well and the knowledge which plays to these strengths will always be more useful to more people for more things than other knowledge.  We have been dazzled by equations and numbers into thinking we have "deep" truths in things like weird exploding stars or ultra low temperatures that cost a million dollars to get to or supercomputer calculations.  

But this is all a mirage!  It's just flash.  What matters is what the human mind can really connect with that also connects with our bodies and world.  We must look beyond the sparkly surface of our superficial and obscure systems of knowledge and reorganize what we know in such a way that humanity can really use it--not the other way around.  

Also, geometry is culturally perhaps the most universal thing, especially given its complexity.  For all the numerous ideas and methods we deal with, it's amazing how many religions, technologies, art systems, cultures, etc. etc. have embraced exactly the same ones to do a huge range of human activities.  And yet we learn it at most one year in school, and it's all taught from 2300 year old text books and with a bizarre set of definitions that cut it off brutally from the world we know from our senses.  In real life we learn of points and lines by drawing them with ink from a pen or graphite from a pencil.  But in class we're taught that these things are of "zero size".  Why? That's not a thing that there is any evidence exists so why are we forced to learn and repeat it in school?  I don't know.  But what I do know is that the size of your pen's points and width of its lines are worth talking about and understanding.  Because that determines what you can do with it!  A pen is very different from a giant paint brush or microscopic  probe that can carve indentations in a plastic surface--and yet all these things are interesting and useful.  Even in the supposedly modern field of fractal geometry we are taught of "infinite" numbers of times one can magnify or shrink a thing and still get the same basic pattern.  But why?  When does that ever exist?  The books will say that this is all very interesting because it's what a fern leaf or the veins in an animal look like.  But it's not!  If you scale up bigger than the size of the whole plant, the fractal description is not relevant, and the same is true as you get down to the level of plant cells.  It's just not true!  Sure, it's useful, but it's not capitol "T" Truth(whatever that is)!  Or at least if it is there is no evidence for it and it's not useful to say that.  

We find geometry in the art of every religion in one form or another, even if it's just in the architecture of the structures they build.  And looking at religious art from around the world it's clear that investigation of geometry has always been a central component of all the various theologies people have developed.  

If you consider that this is a subject that you can use to study art, theology, biology, geography, physics, and can also be used to build very useful things, it's hard to believe we do anything *but* geometry in school!  And I'm trying to base my system of knowledge on it in order to create just such a method of learning.  

Initially what I wanted to do in technology was build things that could self replicate in order to manufacture arbitrary objects, chemicals etc. to provide all human needs for free.  In the 1990s I naively believed the propaganda of the computer industry with their tall tales of "molecular nanotechnology", which was supposed to make some sort of magic computer that would make all the stuff of life without having to actually deal with life: intricate drawings and descriptions were made of imaginary atomic scale gears and levers which were just shrunken versions of Victorian era clockwork and steam technology.  It all sounded amazing, which was the idea, money and time were spent and mostly no results were produced.  

I now think we were all missing the point back then, and that self replication already exists in the form of life, which includes us!  We can and do make things all the time, and it's not always "work"--it's just life.  Rather than "technology" made by some class of special elite people called "engineers", we need things that connect our minds to the world around us in free universal ways, and then we can replicate what we need in a safe and controlled way, rather than trying to deliberately build some sort of replication monster that can do this without our help.  

Right now the classic example of self replicating information in the technological world is the many amusing images which people share on the Internet with their fellow humans.  Of course, this has existed in the form of art and literature since the dawn of our species and perhaps before.  And that is what physical things we build should also look like: like an amusing cat picture, which you want to share because it's easy and makes more sense to share than to not share--it becomes more valuable rather than less valuable every time you share it. Thus it self replicates but can never get totally out of control because if it ever really ruins your day you can just *not* share it.  

This brings me to the next point about geometry which is that it's an alternate way to talk about human value in the sense of what people now call "money" but with a blurrier line between "values" in some moral or philosophical sense and "value" in the tedious sense of the business person.  I believe that the idea of Number has infected our species like a virus, and done great harm in how far we've taken the idea.  I believe that by looking to shapes and relations in space between each other and the things in our world we can get a set of values that make a lot more sense.  

One final point I want to make in this introduction is that I view geometry as something one *does*, and that the thing one does this to is something I would call the "trash feed", a constant flow of what the existing civilization calls "trash", but which geometry can quickly impose order on in a way that makes it easily work with the human mind to make useful things.  Thus we are able to construct a system of what might be called Trash Magic, the welding of the powers over this flow of trash that can be gained by building geometric ideas into our minds.  In this book we will build a series of constructions which I believe are useful. And when I say "we" I mean that very literally.  the experience of working through this book should be an adventure of a very physical nature, involving cut wood, burnt plastic, bent aluminum cans, and big thick cardboard triangles.  We will take trash that has non useful structure and re-order it using the geometry in our minds into structures that are useful and extensible into much larger systems, and which self replicate through communication with other humans.  

