## The Story

1. 1990s nanotech promised a future of total abundance yet warned of a future of total destruction, neither happened
2. it was all based on capitalism and the Turing machine industry, which is all Monotheism, patriarchy, Holy Trinity, authoritarianism, number worship(money) etc
3. we need new models that shift the philosophy of industrial production, which should be about creating feedback loops that connect the human mind, human body, physical world, living world, and other humans.    
4. To make these models of freedom and abundance we need to build geometric structures of value and things, and make things replicate using humans, animals and the energy and things around us.  We must directly convert trash into useful things, in a way we can easily teach to others that they will enjoy working on.  The failure of 90s nanotech was not technology, it was politics and philosophy.
5. The goals are food, medicine, shelter, heating and cooling, materials, transport, communication, and a good life, and some of the machines that will be built are:motors, coolers, heaters, movers of things, storers of things, machines for making things, etc.
6. It all starts with self replicating geometric art.  This can be a building block for the rest of it.  To build a world without money and without capitalism I cannot sell this work or put it anywhere in the property system.  And yet I need federal reserve debt currency to survive physically in the existing system while I work on this.  So I'm asking for donations as well as money to deploy this technology to spread whatever your brand or idea or art or technology is using the power of self-replication.  I can do crowd funded custom public deployments, classes, events, and branded custom deployments for companies, schools, government agencies, non profits and religious institutions.  Some of the details are listed below, and there are links to the existing installations and information on future potential ones.  